## What to smoke

Now you’ve got your smoker, the next question is what to put in it. Unlike a hot smoker (which is hot enough to kill bacteria), a cold smoker carries some risks. Essentially, you’ll be holding the food at around room temperature for a few hours, which can allow bacteria to grow, so you need to make sure that what you smoke isn’t going to harbour nasties that can cause problems. 

Cheese is a great option to start with, and the flavours of different types of cheese with different types of smoke can be fantastic. It tastes best a few days after it’s smoked, as this gives the flavour time to mellow. Most vegetables can be smoked, and smoked garlic, onions or peppers give a great depth of flavour to cooked dishes. 

Meat can be safely smoked if it’s been properly salted first. This salting slows down the bacteria enough for it to be smoked without becoming contaminated. In principle, properly made bacon is safe to smoke, but we would stay away from commercial bacon as it’s hard to know what preservatives have been used. A good butcher will be able to tell you if their products are safe to cold-smoke. Alternatively, you can make your own. The process takes a little time (up to two weeks), but the results are delicious. Our favourite recipe comes from River Cottage: [https://hsmag.cc/cGAzON]. Just be sure to cure it for around four to five days before smoking.

There’s nothing to stop you smoking many different things at a time, provided they all fit into your smoker of course. The best way of finding out what smoked things you like is to try lots of different things out!